                     ACL Layer Design for the Wallet

Introduction

    This is a description of the ACL layer of the wallet implementation.
    This is a specification of the expected behavior of the ACL
    implementation and includes the syntax and semantics of ACL strings
    used in the database.  The ACL strings used by the wallet are intended
    to be an extensible format to which additional ACL backends may be
    added as needed.  When new ACL backends are added, they should be
    described here.

Syntax

    An ACL in the wallet consists of two pieces of data, a <scheme> and an
    <instance>.  <scheme> is one or more characters in the set [a-z0-9-]
    that identifies the ACL backend to use when interpreting this ACL.
    <identifier> is zero or more characters including all printable ASCII
    characters except whitespace.  Only the implementation of <scheme>
    knows about the meaning of <identifier>.  <identifier> may include
    zero or more users.

Semantics

    All users are authenticated to the wallet by Kerberos and are
    therefore represented by a Kerberos principal, which follows the
    normal Kerberos rules for string representation.

    Whenever there is a question about whether a user is permitted an
    action by a particular ACL, the following verification algorithm is
    used:  Iterate through each ACL string on the ACL in question.  If the
    ACL string is malformatted or the scheme is not recognized, skip it.
    Otherwise, dispatch the question to the check function of the ACL
    implementation, passing it the principal identifying the client and
    the <identifier> portion of the ACL string.  This function returns
    either authorized or unauthorized.  If authorized, end the search; if
    unauthorized, continue to the next ACL string.

    There is no support in this scheme for negative ACLs.

    There is one slight complication, namely that some ACL methods need to
    maintain persistant state for performance reasons (consider, for
    example, an ACL layer implemented with LDAP queries).  Therefore, each
    ACL handler should be represented by an object, and when the ACL code
    discovers it doesn't already have an object on hand for a given ACL
    scheme, it should construct one before querying it.  If construction
    fails, it should fail that scheme and any ACL that uses that scheme,
    but still allow access if an ACL not using that scheme grants access
    to the user.

ACL Schemes

  krb5

    The <identifier> is a fully-qualified Kerberos principal.  Access is
    granted if the principal of the client matches <identifier>.

  krb5-group

    <identifier> is the name of a group that contains a list of Kerberos
    principals.  (Storage of this group is left to the discretion of the
    backend, but will probably either be a MySQL table or a file on disk.)
    Access is granted if the principal of the client matches one of the
    principals contained in the group.

  ldap-entitlement

    <identifier> is an entitlement.  If the entitlement attribute of the
    LDAP entry corresponding to the given principal contains the
    entitlement specified in <identifier>, access is granted.

  netdb

    This ACL type is a special case that right now can't be used through
    the normal ACL mechanism because access depends on the name of the
    object being accessed through logic peculiar to the backend.  It is
    included here as a placeholder, but will normally only be used via the
    backend-specific fallback used when the ACL is not present.

    Access is granted if the action performed is one of the normal owner
    actions, the object being accessed corresponds to a system key, and
    the user is an administrator of that system in NetDB (Stanford's
    system management database).

    For this ACL, <identifier> is empty.

  pts

    <identifier> is the name of an AFS PTS group.  Access is granted if
    the principal of the user is a member of that AFS PTS group.
