                  Supported Object Types and ACL Schemes

Introduction

    This is a list of all supported wallet object types and ACL schemes in
    the current version of wallet, with some brief information about the
    properties of each one.  For more detailed documentation, see the
    documentation of the underlying Wallet::Object::* class or
    Wallet::ACL::* class referenced here.

Object Types

  duo

    Stores the configuration for a Duo Security integration.  Duo is a
    cloud provider of multifactor authentication services.  A Duo
    integration consists of some local configuration and a secret key that
    permits verification of a second factor using the Duo cloud service.
    Currently, only UNIX integrations are supported.  In the future, this
    object type will likely be split into several object types
    corresponding to the supported types of Duo integrations.

    Implemented via Wallet::Object::Duo.

  file

    Stores an arbitrary file and allows retrieval of that file.  The file
    must be stored before it can be retrieved.  All files are stored on
    the local file system of the wallet server in a directory organized by
    a hash of the name of the file object.  The size of file objects is
    limited by wallet server configuration.  File contents may include nul
    characters.

    Implemented via Wallet::Object::File.

  keytab

    Stores a keytab representing private keys for a given Kerberos
    principal.  The object name is the Kerberos principal (without the
    realm).  On object creation, the Kerberos principal is created in the
    underlying KDC; on object destruction, the Kerberos principal is also
    deleted.  Normally, any retrieval of the object creates new random
    keys for all supported enctypes and then returns a new keytab
    containing those keys.  Store is not supported.

    Keytab objects with the unchanging flag set will retrieve the existing
    keys from the Kerberos KDC instead of randomizing the keys.  For MIT
    Kerberos, this requires a custom backend be installed on the KDC.

    The enctypes of the returned keys can be restricted by setting the
    enctypes attribute on the wallet object.

    Implemented via Wallet::Object::Keytab.

ACL Schemes

  krb5

    The value is a string representation of a Kerberos principal name.
    This ACL grants access if the authenticated wallet client user (as
    determined by remctl or whatever other protocol is used for the wallet
    transport) equals the ACL value.

    Implemented via Wallet::ACL::Krb5.

  krb5-regex

    Like krb5, but instead of taking the principal string, takes a regular
    expression that is matched against the principal string.  Grants
    access if the regular expression matches the user identity.

    Implemented via Wallet::ACL::Krb5::Regex.

  ldap-attr

    The value is an LDAP attribute, an equal sign, and the value that
    attribute must have.  The LDAP entry for the user (determined via
    site-local customization in the wallet configuration file) is
    retrieved, and the wallet server checks that the user's LDAP entry
    contains that attribute with that value.  If so, access is granted.
    This effectively implements an entitlement check.

    Implemented via Wallet::ACL::LDAP::Attribute.

  netdb

    The value is a hostname.  NetDB (a system for managing DNS, DHCP, and
    related machine information) is queried to see what roles the client
    user has for that hostname.  If the user has a role of user, admin, or
    team, the ACL grants access.

    Implemented via Wallet::ACL::NetDB.

  netdb-root

    Identical to netdb, except that the user identity is taken as a
    Kerberos principal and must be in the form of <user>/root@<realm>.
    The /root part is stripped before checking NetDB for roles.  This
    forces users to use /root instances for wallet operations instead of
    their normal principals.

    Implemented via Wallet::ACL::NetDB::Root.

License

    Copyright 2012, 2013, 2014
        The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

    Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
    are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
    notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
    without any warranty.
